we scream in the west all the time about
the environmental cost of wealth but the
environmental cost of poverty is way
higher way higher and so and this is
something I can't figure out I cannot
figure out why the greens don't get this
because in principle they're on the left
and the leftists in principle are on the
side of the poor but when it
comes but like the thing is like I take
Germany as example like the green lobby
got into essentially a position of power
within that country and they're
effectively left with
um yeah and they were very they heavily
campaigned against nuclear to push for
other renewable Solutions so they pushed
heavily into wind and solar but the
result of that was that the country no
longer could power itself it had to buy
Power from from Poland which was
manufactured by coal and it had to B by
and liite liite coal right not not just
coal but the worst kind of coal yeah I
know brilliant brilliant which is which
is incredibly polluting and and and they
also had to buy um
ironically um energy from France which
was generated by nuclear power so right
right the costs the costs of the German
went up for their power and they became
their carbon footprint went up right
right so we we want to we want to dwell
on that for a minute so the consequence
of the green movement in Germany was
that power let's let's lay it out power
was five times more expensive than it
should have been the Germans became
reliant on fossil fuels to a degree that
they weren't before including reliant on
Putin which turned out to be a very bad
idea let's point out plus now and
Germany is now in the throws of
de-industrialization so the poor are
going to get a hell of a lot poor and
you might say well that's all worthwhile
because we're so much Greener but the
truth of the matter is is that Germany
now has among the world's dirtiest
energy per unit because of their idiotic
policy so they didn't just fail on the
economic front entirely and make the
poor poorer they failed by their own
standards because the bloody was to
decrease pollution and what they did
instead was increase it per unit of
energy and not just a little bit a lot
and so this just bedevils me because I
cannot I cannot put my finger on why it
it is that the leftists are
simultaneously pro- environment Pro poor
people and anti-nuclear it's like sorry
guys you don't get to have all three of
them you can have two yeah I imagine
there's a lot of posturing here and and
it's yeah yeah not just say that all
right yes but like as an example like I
was working in Utah once and there was
this I was working in this small little
town and there was a massive Coal Power
Plant there and I was like oh so this
this power is Utah and they're like oh
no we we send all of this power straight
to California I was like why and they're
like well they shut down a lot of their
power plants um so so they can claim
that they've greened essentially um but
really they're still they're still
powering their Tesla of coal um that's
being generated in Utah and so it's it's
the same kind of Optics well you know
Californians in Utah and and the
inhabitants what are UT utonium I have
no idea what you call Utah UT what I
have no idea anyways you know that
California and people from Utah they
don't breathe the same atmosphere it's
like China and the United States
completely different Air Supply as
everyone knows so yeah one of the
reasons I like to talk to Engineers is
cu they don't get to posture
like the thing that's cool about
engineers is their stupid stuff either
works or it doesn't and it's very
unforgiving and so you know and and uh
yeah it's okay the Dei people and this
and the the uh the politically correct
types they're going to take all you
Engineers out too so you better get
prepared well as a as a my days might be
numbered so well plus you're an engineer
man you've got a lot of things you know
a lot of strikes against you so okay
okay so so we we've we've made a case
for for um for these small these micro
reactors now I'd like to know and you
you alluded to something quite
interesting you know you said that when
you first started to contemplate doing
this in the American environment you
realized that there was a lot of um a
lot of industrial and infrastructure
pieces that needed to be in place that
had been allowed to Decay because the
Americans had had a reliable supply of
file material from the Soviet Union as a
consequence of its collapse and so a lot
of things were left to DEC integrate
let's say but now you've realized that
that's also another Economic Opportunity
so it sounds to me like you guys are
planning to build a what would you say
from the ground up Enterprise that will
allow for these micro reactors to exist
so then I I want to know where you are
how how you came to that CL conclusion
where you are in that process and then
again because I have a particular
interest in western Canada I'm curious
about you know how how these ideas have
been received in places like SCU one so
I would say
um there there's like three questions
there y yep y so um how how these things
have been received like let's start with
that one so yeah um I think certain
territories like Alberta become very
friendly to the idea of powering a lot
of their remote Industries even the oil
sands operations with nuclear power
right right right right and that's
incredibly energy intensive
industry um and so there has been
support voiced for the and there's like
an invest Alberta program which is
looking actually to bring in smrs but
that's not ubiquitous across the whole
country like you don't you wouldn't see
the same receptiveness from say British
Columbia where I am currently it's it's
again certain more industry-friendly
provinces would would drift in that sort
of area and I I think honestly Toronto
well the Ontario the greater tontario
area came to the conclusion that nuclear
had already provided a substantial
portion of the energy um for the
province and um they didn't want to
substitute that for um more more fossil
fuels so they they've gone back and
invested in it Canada actually has a
pretty decent I quite like the reactors
they put together that can do
reactors and they also
they almost generated their entire
independent industry because they opted
for designs that weren't being widely
used across the world so Canada is
actually in a very strong position to
build out their own SMR industry if they
invest properly now um in doing that
otherwise they're they're going to
suffer in the same way that the United
States is suffering from getting going
now and another thing you you mentioned
is why we why we saw these problems that
we saw big companies like say Terra
power it's it's a big SMR company and
it's backed by Bill Gates so there's
there's no shortage of money for this
thing to get going but they effectively
did could not find enough fuel to put
into their reactors to complete the test
work and we thought that's very
interesting so what happened there well
they effectively had to shut down for
two years and that's the worst thing
that can possibly happen because you
just burn cash and so they probably
they're probably going to burn through
hundreds of Millions ions of dollars and
so the advantage you know a wise man can
learn from the mistakes of others so
hopefully we just saw that and we
thought well if we can't we're not
backed by Bill Gates so we can't afford
to make aund million dollar mistake like
that or or a billion dollar mistake like
that and
so really before we saw the US
government realized that there was a
significant problem which which very
closely mirrored the Ukraine war when
relationships began to become very
strange and they began pushing a lot of
funding opportunities out there to build
back their infrastructure and they're
doing that now but it's it's still come
a bit late and so the advantage we had
is we started doing that before these
funding opportunities from the US
government came out to build uh
conversion facilities deconversion
facilities fuel fabrication enrichment
facilities because otherwise if if
Russia cut off the states now and
they're still they are still through
back Channel dealing in the supply of
Rich uranium because the US can't AFF to
go without it um they don't but they
don't want to have those channels open
anymore and they they they want to cut
ties but they can't do it and you
mentioned earlier that Germany lost
sovereignty over it so for over itself
partially because it it couldn't power
itself it was riant on Russian gas right
that's a situation no country really
wants to be it you want to be have
Sovereign energy um you know absolutely
otherwise you your diplomatic strength
is completely gone and um yeah well
you'd think that no country would want
that but when you watch the policies
that they're pursuing uh a sensible
person would conclude that that's
exactly what they want and I I I do
believe that posturing has a very a very
large amount to do with that because
almost all of the green idiocy is is
narcissistic posturing it's the pretense
of doing good without doing any of the
actual work
[Music]